let's go live to our correspondent on
the ground hanim Mahmud who's live from
Rafa so Israel has said it would open
the IRS Crossing into Northern Gaza
what's the latest on that honey and how
much Aid has gone in in the last few
days yes Paul well so far what we're
looking at is more of the talks and then
more of theoretically things are going
to get better hopefully within the
coming but in terms of practicality
nothing on the ground is significant
nothing has it changed within the past
few days and and the fact that we're
still seeing uh people are struggling on
daily basis here overcrowded southern
part of this trip to find uh basic
supplies food supplies and survival uh
items is just an indication that nothing
uh significant happened within uh the
past weeks and uh the fact that there
only uh a tricle amount of of Aid has
has been allowed so far and the the
miles of the tracks on the other side of
the Border just make it very difficult
uh for people to cope well with the with
the very difficult living conditions
created by the ongoing intense bombing
campaign along with the restrictions on
the the ground that has so far prevented
Aid workers from doing their job and
delivering delivering much needed uh
items and Food Supplies to a largely
desperate uh population in in the
northern part of Gaza C is the
situations are are far worse and and
just right now despite the talks uh and
the uh the Alternatives that proposed
either by airdropping or or constructing
the temporary peer to provide more Aid
uh people are still uh suffering from a
spread of acute famine that so far has
uh has caused the death of uh uh 30
Children of the enforced dehydration and
starvation now everything sounds really
nice and and flowy in theory but the
problem is uh on the ground we're
talking about a situations that are
described as it's a an
Emergency that is uh it's a crisis that
is above emergency level that has been
the bi product directly created by the
intense bombing campaign and in terms of
logistics it's impossible to be doing
any of Aid uh food uh delivery in the
northern part and G city until there is
a complete seize fire and insurance of
safety for Aid workers and and Aid
Seekers uh to receive uh much needed
items so no changes when it comes to the
humanitarian situation what about the
fighting honey what's the latest on
that and well the fighting continues and
the air Air Raids continue and air
strikes continue to pound across the
central area and and the City of unit in
the northern part in Gaza City and it's
it's directly linked to what's going on
more air strikes more attacks are
leading to more obstruction of a
humanitarian Aid the whole uh a a chain
of events have led into these
catastrophic situations and now with the
shattered sense of of Safety and
Security right after the attacks on the
wck employees a lot of people and donors
and volunteers and Aid workers of the gr
are very discouraged unless there is
Assurance of safety for them
to continue working uh the one and as
long as we have more Air Raids continue
to happen and not nothing is going to
change more people are being injured
that put a pressure on hospitals in the
central area for example we have only
one health facility that is semi
operational right now and the fact that
it has turned into more of a refugee
camp because of the thousand of people
Sheltering uh inside and has been uh
within the past few days a site of
attacks as well where in journalist and
and and patients and injuries were uh
killed inside the courtyard of the
hospital on top of that the insufficient
medical staff it just making it very
difficult the more bombings the more
we're seeing difficult conditions that
created on the ground that going to
prevent anything meaningful to change uh
uh the course of people's life across
the Gaza Strip yeah difficult conditions
for the people of Gaza no doubt thank
you so much honey for the update that's
Al jair is hany Mahmud live in Rafa